# 5 'stat' Command Examples for Linux Newbies

***

https://www.tecmint.com/linux-stat-command-examples/

***

April 9, 2018

Aaron Kili

***

stat command is a useful utility for viewing file or file system status. It retrieves information such as file type; access rights in octal and human-readable; SELinux security context string; time of file birth, last access, last data modification, last status change in both human-readable and in seconds since Epoch, and much more.

It has an option to specify a custom format instead of the defualt, for displaying information. In this guide, we will look at five stat command examples for Linux newbies.

<br/><br/>
***

## Check Linux File Status

 The easiest way to use stat is to provide it a file as an argument. The following command will display the size, blocks, IO blocks, file type, inode value, number of links and much more information about the file /var/log/syslog, as shown in the screeshot:

```
$ stat /var/log/syslog

File: '/var/log/syslog'
Size: 26572     	Blocks: 56         IO Block: 4096   regular file
Device: 80ah/2058d	Inode: 8129076     Links: 1
Access: (0640/-rw-r-----)  Uid: (  104/  syslog)   Gid: (    4/     adm)
Access: 2018-04-06 09:42:10.987615337 +0530
Modify: 2018-04-06 11:09:29.756650149 +0530
Change: 2018-04-06 11:09:29.756650149 +0530
Birth: -

```

<br/><br/>

## Check File System Status

in the previous example, stat command treated the input file as a normal file, however, to display file system status instead of file status, use the **-f** option

```
$ stat -f /var/log/syslog
File: "/var/log/syslog"
ID: ce97e63d2201c974 Namelen: 255     Type: ext2/ext3
Block size: 4096       Fundamental block size: 4096
Blocks: Total: 84769790   Free: 16012830   Available: 11700997
Inodes: Total: 21544960   Free: 20995459

```

You can also provide a directory/filesystem as an argument as shown.

```
$ stat -f /

File: "/"
ID: ce97e63d2201c974 Namelen: 255     Type: ext2/ext3
Block size: 4096       Fundamental block size: 4096
Blocks: Total: 84769790   Free: 16056471   Available: 11744638
Inodes: Total: 21544960   Free: 21005263

```

<br/><br/>

## Enable Following of Symbolic Links

Since Linux supports links (symblic and hard links), certain files may have one or more links; or they could even exist in a filesystem.

To enable stat to follow links, use the **-f** flag as shown.

```
$ stat -L /
File: '/'
Size: 4096      	Blocks: 8          IO Block: 4096   directory
Device: 80ah/2058d	Inode: 2           Links: 25
Access: (0755/drwxr-xr-x)  Uid: (    0/    root)   Gid: (    0/    root)
Access: 2018-04-09 10:55:55.119150525 +0530
Modify: 2018-02-20 11:15:54.462893167 +0530
Change: 2018-02-20 11:15:54.462893167 +0530
Birth: -

```

<br/><br/>
## Use a Custom Format To Display Information 

stat also allows you to use a particular or custom format instead of the defult. The `-c` flag is used to specify the format used, it prints a newline after each use of format sequence.

Alternatively, you can use the `--printf` option which enables interpreting of backslash escapes sequences and turns off printing of a trailing of a tailing newline. You need to use `\n` in the format to print a new line, for example.

` # stat --printf='%U\n%G\n%C\n%z\n' /var/log/secure`

Meaning of the format sequences for files used in above example:

  * %U - user name of owner

  * %G - group name of owner

  * %C - SELinux security context string 

  * %z - time of last status change, human-readable

<br/><br/>
## Here is an example shows using of accepted format sequences for file systems.

`$ stat --printf='%n\n%a\n%b\n' /`

Meaning of the format sequences used in the above command.

  * %n - shows the file name

  * %a - print free blocks available to non-superuser

  * %b - outputs total data blocks in file system

<br/><br/>
## Print information in Terse Form

The `-t` option can be used to print the information in terse form.


```
$stat -t /var/log/syslog
/var/log/syslog 12760 32 81a0 104 4 80a 8129076 1 0 0 1523251873 1523256421 1523256421 0 4096
```

As a last note, your shell may have its own version of stat, please refer to your shell's documentation for details about the options it supports. To see all accepted output format sequences, refer to the stat man page.

```
$ man stat
```

In this article, we have explanined five stat command examples for Linux newbies. Use the feedback form below to ask any questions.

