# (Update:Now in Canary) Google is improving Progressive Web Apps on Chrome OS

***

https://www.androidpolice.com/2018/04/09/google-improving-progressive-web-apps-chrome-chrome-os/

***

## About [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/about/)

Who We are 

Android Police is a blog dedicated to everything related to Android. We hope you enjoy our writing and subscribe to updates using the buttons on the right.

Our staff is constantly scouring the Internet for the latest Android news, sharing tips, tricks, tutorials, videos, and podcasts, reviewing devices, apps, and games, and keeping track of custom ROMs and hacks.

Our Team

* Arten Russakovskii, Founder and wearer of all hats
* David Ruddock, Managing Editor
* Rita El Khour, Managing Editor, Grammar Nazi
* Cody Toombs, Contributor and teardown specialist
* Corbin Davenport, Contributor
* Emilie Brezman, Video production manager
* Facundo Holzmeister, video host
* Jacob Long, Contributor
* James Hahn, Contributor
* Jeff Beck, Contributor
* Jerome Ortega, Video host
* Jordan Palmer, Editor
* Martim Lobao, Contributor
* Richard Gao, Contributor
* Ryan Whitwam, Senior Editor
* Ryne Hager, Editor
* Scott Scrivens, UK Editor
* Sebastiaan Bakker, Developer
* Zachary Anderson, Video host

If you think you've got the chops to write quality material for us, hurry up and head over here.

History

The site was founded in December 2009 by Artem Russakovskii - an avid Android supporter, software developer, sysadmin, and fan. It went live on March 23rd, 2010. 

As of July 2016, AndroidPolice.com serves over 12 milion monthly pageviews to over 4 milion unique monthly visitors.

AndroidPolice.com is a property of llogical Robot LLC. 


Need To Contact US?

We'd love to hear from you. Want to share a tip? Got a question or comment for the staff? Head over to the Contact page for all the contact options your heart desires.

Advertising, Licensing, and Permissions Requests?

If you wnat to advertise on AndroidPolice.com or have a licensing/permissions request, please see our Advertising and Licensing/Permissions page.

Got A Review Unit?

If you have an interesting and relevant product, be it a new Android garget or an application, we would love to review it. Ping us using the Contact page. 

Note: we honor embargoes.

Android Police Prodcut Review Ethics Statement

We take the objective assessment of the products we receive for review extremely seriously. However, common practice in the technology product industry means that a minority of of the products we review are sent as "samples." This industry term means that sometimes a product is sent to us with no expectation that it be returned to the person or company requesting a review. This does not mean the review is "sponsored," "paid," or otherwise compensated-it just means we don't need to send the product back. Rarely, if ever, are we pxplicity told prior to reviewing a product that we do not need to return it. In general, we operate under the assumption that any product we review is somehing we would be required to send back. Personal objectivity is our highest goal as part of any product review, and we promise to always call it like we see it.

Link menetization

When you click on links to various merchants on this site and make a purchase, this can result in this site earning a commission. Affiliate programs and affiliation include, but are not limited to, Amazon, the eBay Partner Network, and others. 

Want To Write For Android Police?

If you are passionate about the mobile industry (and Android specifically), 
gadgets,software,unicorns, or all of the above, why not consider joining the AP team and writing for us?

You will enjoy working with our highly technical, yet fun, staff, while exposing your content to thousands of people and getting paid for it, travel, and gin access to events and the latest hardware. Check out this post for all the details.

Note: Excellent English is absoulutely essential to be consiered.


***


Near the ene of last year, Google told developers that it was working to phase out apps in the Chrome Web Store, in favor of platform-independent Progressive Web Apps. While PWAs already fully work in Chrome and Chrome OS, Google has been trying to make them look and feel more like desktop programs. Kenneth Christiansen (a contributor to Chromium) has shared some screenshots of how the work is progressing, and it looks fantastic. 

For those unaware, Chrome OS has an 'Add to Shelf' menu option, which allows users to add websites to the operating system's app library. Sites would have theirown window, but that was it. Chrome on Windows and Linux has a similar 'Add to desktop' option, while Chrome for Mac lacks that feature.

In the latest builds of Chrome OS, this functionality has been massively imrpoved- the title bar now uses the site's theme color and displays the current domain. There's also a new menu button that provides easy access to the current URL and other information. 

If you are using the Canary or Dev Channel of Chrome OS, you can try out the new functionality by enabling #enable-desktop-pwas flag in chrome://flags. If you want to take things a step further, you can turn on the #enable-experimental-web-platform-features flag. This allows PWAs to function as a share target, just like Android apps. For example, you can share a link from Chrome to Twitter Lite.

Sharing a link from on PWA(InstaMusic) to another(Twitter Lite)

It's exciting to see this work being done, especially on Chrom OS, since using Android apps with a mouse and keyboard isn't always a great experience. Most of these improvements will carry over to Chrome on macOS, Linux, and Windows as well. The future for PWAs keeps looking brighter and brighter.

As Francois beaufort from Google points out, this is now available in Chrome OS Canary by default (no flags required). Just open a PWA, like Twitter Lite or Spotify, and click the new 'Install' menu. 

