# Linux: Beep Command Can Be Used to Probe for the Presence of Sensitive Files

***

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/linux-beep-command-can-be-used-to-probe-for-the-presence-of-sensitive-files/

***

About Bleepingcomputer.com

Bleeping Computer is a technical support site and a self-education tool for the novice user to be able to have a place that they can come and discuss computer/technology problems with their peers and at the same time have a rich resource in which to learn the "basics" about computers and technology.

We have found, with our extensive experience in helping users, whether they be family, friends, coworkers, or clients, that most technical support problems lie not with the computer, but with the fact that the user does not know the "basic concepts" that underlie all issues of computing. These concepts include hardware, files and folders, operating systems, Internet, and applications. Once a user learns the basic concepts of these categories they will be able to express what problems they are having in a more understandable manner, making it easier to be helped by a more experienced user.

The basic concepts of computer technology do not only apply themeselves towards fixing problems, but also to every day life. In todya's age, computers are here to stay and are only going to be incorporated into our daily life more and more as time goes on. Understanding the basic concepts will allow you to communicate more intelligently about your computer and technology needs and allow you to use your equipments more efficiently. 

This site is not geared towards any specific type of user. You will find that the knowledge of the basic concepts will allow you to communicate much more clearly whether or not you are an employer looking to describe the problems you are having to your computer consultant, to discussing with peers the latest and greatest things you are doing with your computer, or to going into a computer store and buying a new add-on or computer.

There is no reason why anyone cannot be knowledgeable about the technology that they use every day and to not feel intimidated by it. With the understanding of what you use and buy, you will find that you save money, have less headaches, and do not feel intimidated when speaking to people who may be more knowledgeable than you. 

Our goal is to turn your #$@!* computer the never does what you want it to do, to one that you praise as a well tamed tool. 

FTC Disclosure

The Federal Trade Commission requires that we disclose any relationship we have between a product manufacturer or advertiser when we write a pruduct, service, or recommend a product. This is a good policy that allows you, the reader, to understand the relationships between a site and the various companies and products they promote.

We have outlined our product review statndards and the various ways we use affiliate link or earn commissions: 

Affiliate Links

BleepingComputer may use links that generate a commission for the site if you use them to purchase a product. In the forums, we use Skimlinks to autoamatically transform posted links into affiliate links. If you do not wish to view inserted links you can opt out of this process by going to this url.

We also provide affiliate links for various products within our Virus Removal Guides, Download section, and Tutorials.

Virus Removal Guides

In our Virus Removal section we offer guides on how to remove vairous computer infections. These guides may use programs and utilities that generate commissions for the site when you purchase them. We will never, though promote a product for the sole purpose of generating a commission. We will only suggest a product that cat actually help you remove the computer infcetion for free and we will only receive a commission if you decide to puchase it after.  If if is req

***

A vulnerability in the "beep" package that comes pre-installed with Debian and Ubuntu distros allows an attacker to probe for the presence of files on computer, even those owned by root users, which are supposed to be secret and inaccesible.

The vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2018-0492, has been fixed in recent versions of Debian and Ubuntu (Debian-based OS).

Bug can't be used to hack into secure systems

At its core, the bug is a race condition in the beep utility that allows the OS to emit a "beep" sound whenever it is deemed necessary. 

Security researchers have discovered a race condition in the beep package that allows an attacker to elevate his code to root-level access.

The vulnerability does not allow someone to remotely hack into Linux systems, but it's an elevation of privilege (EoP) vulnerability that gives them full access to a system, helping attackers transform a compromised user account into a serious intrusion with serious repercussions.


Bug allows EoP, reconnaissance, attack launching

Richard Kettlewell of Terrarq says an attacker could use the beep CVE-2018-0492 vulnerability to "open arbitrary files for write as root, bypassing file permissions," "reveal whether any file exists, even if the file's existence would normally be secret from the calling user," or "reveal information about the file type, even if that would normally be secret from the calling user."

Furthermore, if the attacker probes for specific files, and probing those files produces additional actions, beep can also be used as a launching platform for other commands.

Proof of concept code to exploit the vulnerability has been published online. In the meantime, a dedicated website has also popped up, aggregating info about the bug, now nicknamed "Holey Beep."

The beep package that now ships with Debian and Ubuntu has received fixes, but the original beep repository did not, as this looks be an abandoned project without any activity in the pas few years. All beep versions up to and including beep 1.3.4 are considered vulnerable. 

Sebastian Krahmer pointed out the beep fixes are "still wrong," but the Debian and Ubuntu security teams have not provided commentary on his assessment just yet.


