# 10 Best Programming Books Available for Free

***

https://www.technotification.com/2018/04/top-10-free-programming-books.html

***

by Vicky Singh Rao

Today, books are not limited to the hardbound, softbound compilation of papers, these can also be seen and downloaded online and is often free. The remarkable invention of computers made it possible. Instead of making a large library on your house, ebooks can be stored single handedly on a computer. Programmers are the professionals who need a lot of studies and research. This is because of the demanding and changing techologies around us.

So, if you are a programmer and you are looking for quality books to read, we list down 10 free ebooks for programmers of all levels for you to choose from. You can also check our list of Best websites to Learn Programming online.

10 Best Books Every Coder Should Read

1. Foundations of Programming

It is a 79-page ebook that is written by a software developer named Karl Seguin. It is based on an article series called "Foundations of Programming". The topics are about things all programmers care about. Examples are unit testing, memory allocation, and DRY code.

2. How to Think Like a Computer Scientist

This book was written by Peter Wentworth, Jeffrey Elkner Allen B. Downey and Chris Meyers. It is composed of 39 web pages. According to the book: "The single most important skill for a computer sientist is problem-solving. Problem-solving means the ability to formulate problems, think creatively about solutions, and express a solution clearly and accurately"

3. The Road to learn React

Javascript based frameworks are becoming very popular and demanding. React JS framework is one of the major javascript frameworks. The Road to learn React is a great book for beginners who want to learn React JS. The book covers all fundamentals, general concepts, best practices of React Js. It helps to build a working application with pagination, serching and sorting. It also has extra referenced reading materials and exercises for each chapter. 

4. How to Design Programs

How to Design Programs is about the process of designing computer programs which might mean desktop software or mobile apps or web apps depending on who's reading. This is a 55 pages book. The writers are Matthias Felleisen, Robert Burce Findler, Matthew Flatt and Shriram Krishnamurthi.

5. Eloquent Javascript

The 3rd edition of this book iis now available. Eloquent Javascript is the best ebook forlearning the fundamentals of Javascript and programming. The book is divided into 3 sections, the programming language (Source code), The browser (Client) and The Node (Server). It's very easy to read and understand.

6. Producing Open Source Software

According to the book: "Producing Open Source Software is a book about the human side of open source development. It describes how successful projects operate, the expectations of users and developers, and the culture of free software." This is a 24 web pages book. The writer of this book is Karl Fogel.

7. The little Go book

It is written mainly for beginners of Google's Go programming language. It shows all the funcdamentals in a short and concise way with some easy to understand examples. The book is simple and easy to read and covers a quite amount of information in just 83 pages. 

8. 97 Things Every Programmer Should Know

Originally written by O'Reilly Media, this 98-page ebook is a collection of essays, or "pearls of wisdom for programmers collected from leading pratitioners." It offers a rich collection of programming practices and concepts. The book's format is simple and easy to read, with some great examples.

Also, read our article" How to became a Good Programmer?

9. Essential Coding Theory

It was written by Venkatesan Guruswami, Atri Rudra, and Madhu Sudan. Thia book contains 226 pages of essential coding theories. This book discusses mathematical concepts, algorithms, and patterns related to code. This is not an easy book to read that is why this is reserved only for the brave.

10. Building Skills in Programming

The writer is named Steven F.Lott. Lott wrote 491 pages book that uses Phython to teach the learner concepts such as functions, data types, objects, conditional statements, and more. 

These and so much more books are available for programmers to read. You just have to choose the best suits you. 


