# Important Kernel Update for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS Patches 39 Security Vulnerabilities

***

http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-16-04-lts-and-14-04-lts-users-receive-important-linux-kernel-updates-520588.shtml

***

Apr 7, 2018 21:32 GMT By Marius Nestor

After releasing a major kernel update for the Ubuntu 17.10 (Artful Aardvark) operating system series on both 64/32-bi and Raspberry Pi 2 devices, Canonical relased an important kernel update for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus) sytems.

The new kernel update published earlier this week addresses a toal of 39 security vulnerabilities for the long-term supported Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus) operating system series and its official derivatives, including Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu MATE, Ubutu Kylin, and Ubuntu Studio.

The most severe vulnerabilities fixed in this new kernel update affected Linux kernel's USB over IP implementation, allowing remote attackers to either crash the vulnerable system or cause excessive memory consumption through denial of service (DoS attacks). More information about the fixed issues can be found in the security advisory.

Canonical urges all users to update their systems immediately 

As expected, the kernel update is available for the 64-bit and 32-bit Linux kernel packages of Ubuntu 16.04 LTS operating system using the Linux 4.4 kernel, as well as for Raspberry Pi 2 single-board computers, Amazon Web Services(AWS) systems, cloud environments, and Snapdragon processors. 

Canonical recommends all 64-bit and 32-bit Ubuntu 16.04 LTS users using Linux 4.4 to update to their PCs to the linux-image-4.4.0-119.143 kernel. You can follow the instructions provided by Canonical at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/Upgrades and make sure you reboot your computer after installing the new kernel.

Amazon Web Services(AWS) users need to update the kernel to linux-image-4.4.0-1054-aws-4.4.0-1054.63, Raspberry Pi 2 users to linux-image-4.4.0-1086-raspi2-4.4.0-1086.94, cloud users to linux-image-4.4.0-1020-kvm-4.4.0-1020.25, and Snapdragon users to linux-image-4.4.0-1088-snapdragon-4.4.0-1088.93.

Canonical also released a kernel update for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS(Trusty Tahr) users, which addresses a total of eight security vulnerabilities. Users are urged to update their system running the Linux 3.13 kernel to linux-image=-3.13.0-144.193 on 64-bit, 32-bit and PowerPC installations. Details about the vulnuerabilities address can be found here.


