# Introduction to OpenStack

***

https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-openstack

***

Introduction to OpenStack

Get an in-depth primer on OpenStack, the leading cloud computing platform, directly from The Linux Foundation, the leader in professional open source management and the platform provider for the Certified OpenStack Administrator exam.

* Length :  10 weeks
* Effort : 3 to 4 hours per week
* Price : Free / Add a Verifed Certificate for $99 USD
* Institution : LinuxFoundationX
* Subject : Computer Science
* Level : Introductory
* Language : English
* Video Transcripts : English

Prerequisites

Students should have experience with Linux

Do you need to train a group of employees?

edX For Business
Equip your team with tomorrow's skills... today.

Puchase for a Group

About this course

OpenStack is growing at an upprecedented rate, with over 65% of OpenStack deployments now in production - a number which continues to rise.

The demand for individuals who have experience managing this cloud platform is also accelerating. According to the Open Source Jobs Report from The Linux Foundation and Dice, 51% of hiring managers say experience with OpenStack and other cloud technologies are driving open source hiring decisions. Now is the time to build and exciting and rewarding career managing OpenStack clouds.

This introductory course is taught by cloud experts from the Linux Foundation, which also delivers the Certified OpenStack Administrator (COA) exam. As host to some of the world's leading open source cloud projects, The Linux Foundation provides training and networking opportunities to help you advance your career.

Take this course to learn:

* The origins of OpenStack : Where does it come from and how can you contribute as a developer to the project?

* How to deploy OpenStack: Setup your own lab environment and deploy OpenStack on Ubuntu and CentOS with DevStack and Packstac, respectively.

* How to deploy a virtual machine from Horizon: Get the steps and components that lead to a working and accessible virtual machine. 

* An introduction to managing OpenStack from the command line.

* Scaling out your OpenStack cloud by adding SDN, object storage, compute nodes, high availability, and more.

This course is perfect for IT professionals seeking a high-level overview of OpenStack, and who want to find out if OpenStack is the right solution to meet the IT needs of their organization. This course also helps anyone who wants to set up a small scale OpenStack test environment to gain experience working with OpenStack. 

What you'll learn

* Cloud computing as it compares to virtualization
* Deployment of virtual serers
* How to install OpenStack with automated tools
* Command line management tools
* Scaling out an OpenStack Cloud

View/Hide Course Syllabus

Course Syllabus

Welcome and Introduction
Session 1: From Virtualization to laaS Cloud
Session 2: Understanding OpenStack
Session 3: Deploying OpenStack (PackStack and DevStack)
Session 4: Deploying a Virtual Machine from Horizon
Session 5: An Introduction to Managing OepnStack from the Command Line
Session 6: Scaling Out Your OpenStack
Session 7: What's Next?
Final Exam.


***

Pursue a Verified Certificate to highlight the knowledge and skills you gain ($99 USD)

* Official and Verified
Receive and instructor signed certificate with the institution's logo to verify your achievement and increase your job prospects

* Easily Sahreable
Add the certificate to your CV or resume, or post it directly on LinkedIn

* Proven Motivator
Give yourself an additional incentive to complete the course

* Support our Mission
EdX, a non-profit, relies on verified certifications to help fund free education for everyone globally.

 
