# I Gave Up Google Apps and Services for 5 Months. Here's What I Learnt

***

https://gadgets.ndtv.com/apps/opinion/i-stopped-using-google-apps-and-services-for-5-months-heres-everything-i-learnt-1833752

***

about NDTV

New Delhi Television is, and has been for more than a quater century, a pioneer in India's news television and digital journalism. Founded in 1988 by Radhika Roy and Prannoy Roy, NDTV is today the most watched, credible and respected news and lifystyle network in India and a leader in Internet. From the path-breaking "The World This Week" (nominated as one of India's 5 best television programmes since Independence), the first private news on Doordarshan "The News Tonight", producing India's first 24-hours news channel "Star News" and the country's first ever 2-in-1 channel Profit-Prime, NDTV has been at the forefront of every single news revolution. NDTV is now primarily an internet company with the flagship website -ndtv.com-India's number 1 destination for general news.

NDTV is most proud of how its work impacts the real world and how it is using its powerful reach to campaign for and with the people of India. 27 years of dedicated and innovative programming has brought into focus a number of social issues ranging from the 7 Wonders of India; Save Our Tigers; the Championships and the most recent Health4U campaigns on Heart Care, Diabetes, Cancer and Organ Donation, unbiased Swachch india, the Road to Safety and What's your Choice? campaigns. Seen as an honest, unbiased and fearless crusader, NDTV's sustained and award winning campaigns against injustice and human rights violations have forced apathetic governments to act, legislation to be changed and made the nation aware of the power of the people.

Its channels NDTV 24x7 (English), NDTV India (Hindi) and India's first ever 2-in-1 channel NDTV Profit NDTV Prime (Business and Infortainment) continue to raise the standards of journalism with innovative programming and uncompromising integrity.

Incisive and creative, the channels target the global Indian with news that is credible, true and fast. NDTV 24x7 is the only English News Channel from India which is beamed in the UK, USA, Canada, South Africa, Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, Mauritius and most of the SAARC Countries to reach out to the Indian Diaspora.

Over the years, NDTV has expanded its brand portfolio to seize opportunities in the 'beyond news space' and has step-down subsidiaries: NDTV Lifestyle, NDTV Convergence (triple play; to exploit the synergies between television, Internet and mobile and owns the website ndtv.com) and NDTV Worldwide offering high and consultancy for setting up of local telvision news channels in emarging markets across the world.

In 2007 the company launched NDTV Good Times, an up-market lifestyle channel for the global urban Indian; and use its expertise to lauch global channels, Astro Awani, a channel in Malaysia and Independent Television with Beximco Group in Banglagdesh.

NDTV has further consolidated its transition to a digital media company from a pure television play by moving into the e-commerce space. Award winning IndianRoots is NDTV's first e-commerce venture, providing an online shopping site with a range of apparel, home products and accessories by India's best designers, brands and artisan's prodcuts.

Fifth Gear Auto is a new auto portal leveraging on the massive following of NDTVs car and bike programming. The current auto site Car and Bike has proven the credibility of the brand in this space, having become one of the fastest growing auto portals since its launch, a little over a year ago. 

The NDTV Group's Red Pixels Ventures Ltd unveiled the first look of its e-commerce portal-Gadgets 360°. Gadgets 360° will curate a marketplace for exclusive launches of mobile phones and other electronic gadgets.

Countinuing its focus on e-commerce portals Special Occasions Limited and its site BandBaajaa.com is every bride's guide to her dream wedding with practical advice on wedding preparations. SmartCooky Internet Ltd, with its healthy food website SmartCooky, offers thousands of tried and tested recipes, the latest food news and the buzz on lifestyle and health articles by top specialists who write about good nutritious food.

NDTV's new venture Mojarto.com, India's largest art marketpalce of authentic artworks curated from best artists offers affordable and unique Indian Art & Collectibles with original paintings, digital prints, jewellery, object d'art and other decor items.

NDTV has offices and studios across the country which house India's most modern and sophisticated production, newsgathering and archiving facilities with award winning production and cretive teams.

NDTV has for the third year running been rated India's Most Trusted TV Media Brand in the TRA Trust Brand Report, India Study 2016. In 2014 and 2015 NDTV was rated the Most Trusted Band across all forms of media in India, including newspapers, radio, web sites and of course telvision. It was the first time in media history that a media company has been both: Number 1 - India's most trusted brand across all newpaper and channels, (All India Brand Trust Report 2014 and 2015). Several large and credible nationwide surveys have showed that NDTV 24x7 has by far the highest viewership amongst all English News channels and is Number 1 in viewership amongst all English news channels (independent Nationwide survey of 90,000 + households by Hansa Research) In addition NDTV's website ndtv.com created a record in 2014 by recording 13 billion hits on one day, the day of the Lok Sabha (Parliament) Election results.

NDTV, the UK's longest running Indian news channel has long been the top choice for the any Indian election coverage. NDTV 24x7 witnessed record audience figures since it joined the UK's audience measuring body, BARB. Data has shown the channel is the most watched Indian news bradcatser in the UK. The Broadcasters' Audience Research Board (BARB) is the official source of television viewing figures in the UK and as per BARB official data NDTV 24x7 is consistently no.1/most viewed Indian news channel in the UK.

 
***

Shobhit Varma, 06 April 2018

Like it or not, Google is omnipresent today. But about five months ago, I wanted to find out if I could cut Google out of my life. The experiment has been a roller coaster of epic proportions, but in the wake of the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal and the ensuing privacy debate, it's gone from being a harmless challenge, to an important decision we should all at least consider.

Just like Facebook, Google collects massive amount of data. Dig a little into Google's Privacy settings and you will be staggered to find the amount of data the comapany collects. Everything - from your Google searches, YouTube history, browsing history on Chrome, voice and audio activity, to your location history - is stored on Google's servers. While there are ways to opt out of some of these, doing so is tedious and it disables a lot of functionality.

With Gmail, Google Maps, Blogger, Google Docs, Google Analytics, Google AdSense, Google Crome, Google News, and more, Google has a vice-like grip on the Internet. But what's it like to try and move away from Google entirely? The alternatives to the above services also collect data in some way or the other, but none of them have the same reach or ecosystem as Google. Using difference providers limits the data on company can gather on you, which can be a small consolation.

Step one was to move on from Search. A combination of Bing and DuckDuckGo has served me impeccably will in the search engine department. DuckDcuckGo does not collect even an iota of your data and I found Bing's Image and Video search to be -surprisingly - a cut above that of Google.

Google's recent controversial decision to remove the 'view image' tab from its Image search results has cemented my decision to stick to Bing and DuckDuckGo. There were only occasional instances where I had to switch to Google to look for photos and reviews of certain landmarks.

Of course, there is a lot more to the stroy than just changing search engines, and the bigger challenge is a complete move away from Google's expansive ecosystem. To that effect, I purged my smartphone of as many Google services as Android would let me - Google Assistant made way for Cortana, Chrome passed on the baton to Firefox, Google Docs was replaced by Word, Google Keyboard was succeeded by Fleksy, Google Play Music made way for Apple Music, and OneDrive took the reins from Google Drive.

To complete the transformation, I replaced the standard stock Android launcher with Microsoft Launcher, which is fast, fluid and has Cortana built right-in, Nova Launcher is another tool I added to my arsenal, which offers a multitude of customisation options, even its free avatar.

My post-Google life

It helps that my primary email account has never been Gmail, and with other email services like Outlook becoming better and better with each release, dropping Gmail is not the unthinkable proposition it once was. While the whole world runs on Gmail, I have always preferred Outlook for its cleaner and less complicated interface.

However, a Google account is used for far more than just Gmail. Remember how many times you have signed into an application or service with your Google account? To complete my purge, I had to make individual accounts for each and every application linked to my Google account - which was an arduous and time-consuming affair.

This experiment made me try new applications and services, which have now become an integral part of my daily routine. Cortana for example, has proved itself to be surprisingly powerful with a level of granular control simply missing in Google Assistant -such as the ability to add specific news topics. While I mostly used Assistant for setting up alarms and reminders, I have started using Cortana much more extensively due to its seamless integration within Microsoft Launcher.

Not only does Cortana integrate with Microsoft Launcher's To-Do, Reminders, and Notes widget, it has quick toggles for day-to-day tasks like setting an alarm, viewing the news, and taking a look at the current weather. Having said that, Cortana struggles with Indian accents and the level of context awareness present in Google Assistant is simply unmatchable. Still it was a switch that wasn't too hard to make, and reduced the number of things I relied on Google for by one.

Meanwhile, Chrome has been my Internet browser of choice ever since I traded in my Samsung CorbyTXT for a Samsung Galaxy Ace back in 2012. Even when I dabbled in the world of iPhones for a brief period of time, I shunned Safari for Chrome because of two primary reasons- Chrome's stellar syncing of history, bookmarks, and tabs across platforms, and the fact that I did not want to familiarise myself with an all-new interface after years of using Chrome.

This experiment made me finally step out of my comfort zone and start afresh with Firefox-which in its in its speedy new Quantum avatar has now dethroned Chrome as my favourite browser. Not only is Firefox faster and easier to use than Chrome, it works much better on a MacBook, where the latter experineces a lot of slowdowns and freezes.

Moving form Google Play Music to Apple Music was the most difficult trasition of the lot. Having to forsake all my custom playlists -which I had spent hours creating - was extremely painful. Over the course of the last few months however, I have come to realise the initial pain was well worth it.

That said, I found Apple Music's recommendations to be more astute and insightful than Google Play Music. I also found the library to be more comprehensive, and the interface sleeker and easier to use. the odd playback and download issue aside. It also offers a nifty family subsription as Rs. 190 per month- which made it easy for me to convince the rest of my family to switch over.

While looking for Gboard alternatives, I chanced upon a keyboard called Fleksy, which has now become my go-to smartphone keyboard. Fleksy is a keyboard built specifically with privacy in mind. Unlike Google Keyboard or SwiftKey, Fleksy collects no data whatsoever, and its autocorrect algorithm does not send any data to the cloud - all computing is contained within the confineds of your smartphone. The fact that it is easy to use and has a powerful theming engine just adds to its appeal.

Where I failed

Changes like these mad it easier to be less reliant on a single service, and makes my privacy just a little bit more secure. But I have to be honest here - my experience has not been entirely successful. There are some Google services which have no decent alternatives and simply cannot be abandoned. I tried living without YouTube and Google Maps for a few weeks-dabbling with Vimeo, DailyMotion, Here Maps and so on.

However, after constantly getting miserably stuck in traffic jams courtesy of Here Maps' absmal traffic prediction and living without videos from my favourite content creators, I promptly admitted defeat and re-enabled YouTube and Google Maps on my smartphone. Maps and YouTube are almost impossible to live without - especially the latter which has become an extremely powerful tool for content discovery. But apart from these two, I have not missed Google services at all.

The experiment helped me realise how deep the company from Mountain View, California has woven itself into the fabric of our life and how difficult it is to stop using its services. At the same time, it also made me appreciate how competent the often ignored alternatives are. Life without Google seems extremely scary and daunting.

This was just an experiment to see how much I can distance myself from Google. Of course, the only way to completely move away from Google's purview is to get rid of your Android smartphone altogether and use an operating system free from all Google services. You could opt for an iPhone and change the default search engine in Safari to Bing or DuckDuckGo, though it's hard to stay away from Google Maps and YouTube, as we discovered. In the Android world, options like Jolla exist, but as of now they are too niche for mainstream use. 

For the latest tech news and reviews, follow Gadgets 360 on Twitter, Facebook, and subscribe to our YouTube channel. 

 
