# Backend Developer, Platform Services at Atlassian

***

https://stackoverflow.com/jobs/173126/backend-developer-platform-services-atlassian

***

Atlassian | Mountain View, CA 

Visa sponsor | Paid relocation

About this job

Job type: Full-time
Experience level: Mid-Level
Role: Backend Developer
Industry: Collaboration Tools, Enterprise Software
Company size: 1k-5k people
Company type: Public

Technologies
java scala amazon-web-services azure agile

Job description

Atlassian is looking for experienced and talented Platform Engineers to join our Cloud Platform Services team. This role involves the design, implementation, and operations of a new hosted platform underlying all of Atlassian's products. Be a part of a high-energy and dynamic team that delivers incredible, creative improvements to our products. You'll collaborate often with other developers to write the best code for the project and deliver amazing results that our users love.

Qulifications
We are always growing, learning, and adapting, in and out of the office. You'll be joining a team that is smart and very direct. We ask hard questions and challenge each other to constantly improve our work. We are self-driven but team oriented. We're dedicated to agile methodology and big believers in 'lean' (which means we don't do documentation for documentation's sake). We know the importance of validating our assumption about users and implement various types of testing to see whether we're right (or wrong). Our bottom line is improving our user's experience-no matter what. 

On your first day, we'll expect you to have:

* 3+ years of experience crafting and implementing high-performance RESTful  microservices serving millions of requests a day

* Fluency in any modern object-oriented programming language (e.g., Java, Scala, Python, Javascript etc.)

* Real passion for collaboration and strong interpersonal skills

* Broad knowledge and understanding of SaaS, PaaS, laaS tools with hands-on experience with public cloud offerings (AWS, GAE, Azure)

* It's great, but not required if you have:
 
   * Knowledge of open source technologies in the PaaS/laaS space
   * Experience working with agile software development methodologies (e.g., XP, scrum)
   * Experience with continous delivery and infrastructure as code


More about our benefits

Our offices are open, highly collaborative and yes, fun! To support you at work (and play) we offer some fantastic perks: ample time off to relax recharge, five paid volunteer days a year for your favorite cause, plenty of food and beverages, ergonomic workstations with sit/stand desks, unique Shiplt days, a company paid trip after five years, generous employer-paid insurance coverage (medical, dental, and vision) for you and your family, 401k matching and more. 

More about Atlassian
Software is changing the world, and we're at the center of it all. With a customer list that reads like a who's in tech, and a highly disrupticve business model, we're advancing the art of team collaboration with products like Jira, Confulence, Bitbucket, Trello, and now Stride. Driven by honest values, an amazing culture, and consistent revenue growth, we're out to unleash the potential of every team. From Amsterdam and Austin to Sydney and SanFrancisco, we're looking for people who are powered by passion and eager to do the best work of their lives in a highly autonomous yet collaborative, no B.S. environment.

Additional Information
We believe that the unique contributions of all Atlassians is the driver of our success. To make sure that our products and culture continue to incorporate everyone's perspectives and experience we never discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, age, or marital, veteran, or disability status. 

All your information will be kept confidential according to EEO guidelines.

Atlassian, Inc., will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistant with the requirements of SFPC Art.49.

About Atlassian

More about the perks

Our offices are open, highly collaborative and yes, fun! To support you at work (And play) we offer some killer perks: full medical/dental/vision package to fit your needs, ample time off to relax and recharge, unlimited vacation policy; take time when you need it, five paid volunteer days a year for your favorite cause, plenty of food and drinks (including beer and bubbly), ergonomic workstations with Aeron chairs, unique ShipIt days, a company paid trip after five years,generous employer-paid insurance coverage for you and family, 401k matching and more.


Benefits

* Paid vacation (differs by market)
* Retirement saving s plan (differs by market)
* Paternity/Maternity Leave
* Ergonomic workstations
* Company bonus
* Good, fun people
* Relocation and visa
* Fully stocked kitchens
* 5 bonus paid days for charity leave
* Flexible work schedule


