# A Programmer's Mind - codeburst

***

https://codeburst.io/a-programmers-mind-d6ab7334f09b

***


Andy Bennett | Senior iOS developer, maker, hacker, builder, geek. http://github.com/akbsteam

Apr 9. 5 min read


After a brief hiatus, I'm back with a new post; I wanted to start my Medium blogging with a bang, so posted one a day for a couple of weeks, which is pretty unsustainable unless you're a full time blogger! So, lets try a couple a week for a bit :)

In this post, I'm taking a more esoteric look at programming; there's going to be no code, and no tips- not even any tricks. This is more about attitude, and to think about that, we're going to need an analogy ...

For the last 7 or so years (and clearly this means I've only just begun my journey), I've been practicing Kendo (Japanese fencing)- a direct descendant of the Samurai sword arts. I've reached Sandan (3rd Dan) grade (which is pretty reasonable for the UK, but way low in the scheme of things!). In that time, I've noticed that there are a surprising, on the surface at least, number of tech people who practice Kendo. However, beyond the obvious geek/StarWars factors, I think the similarities run deep.

Here are 3 examples of lessons that Kendo has taught me about the programming mindset (and conversely, the programming mindset has taught me about the Kendo mindset).

It's "finished"(?)

When is the last time you finished a piece of code? I don't mean shipped, or last time it was uploaded to GitHub, or even, the last time you were satisfied with it...

Ask one of the last few 9th Dan Kendo masters if their Kendo is finished (ie: perfect), and if my own experience is anything to go by, they'd all say "not even close!", In fact, in my own journey, I have noticed that the longer I have been doing Kendo, the more I am aware of my own failings.

Over the last 20 years that I've been working as a developer, I've been through huge shifts in how I program; not just the languages, or even the paradigms (procedural, OOP, POP, functional), but down to the how the nuances of a particular syntax can impact the code that you write. The 'perfect' piece of code doesn't exist, partly because perfection demands diffierent, often contradictiory, answers to different contexts-the best code for the machine is not the best for the human reader of the code for example.

The great joy, and indeed frustration, of martial arts is the constant striving to perfect the unperfectable, and, for me this is true also of code- there is deep satisfaction in taking a piece of code that you wrote a month ago, and refining it to make it more readable; more understandable. 

There is a beautiful illustration of this in the term "kagami shin"-polishing the mirror. Traditionally, a mirror in Japan would have been a simple piece of metal, polished to a high sheen, but there would always be imperfections. Every time you polish the mirro you remove some of the imperfections, but some always remain, and in fact, the act of polishing introduces more, if smaller, imperfections. At the same time, each time the mirror is polished, your reflection becomes clearer, and thus your patience is rewarded by a better understanding of yourself.

Sempai & Kohai

Anyone who's watched any martial arts movies will be familiar with the term Sensei(teacher), but less well known are "sempai" and "kohai". Sempai is literally one who has walked before, and kohai is one who follows after. So I am sempai to the kendoka (Kendo practitioners) that have been practicing for less time than me, and kohai to those who've walked the path for longer.

The fundamental principle of this relationship is that it is two way; every kendoka is both sempai and kohai, and in every sempai/kohai relationship both parties have somthing to learn from each other; we might categorise it as mutual respect.

All too often I read articles on programming with titles along the lines of "If you're doing these things, you're doing it wrong". We all fall into this tra. I suspect that it's partly because if we're honest about our own code we know that what we wrote even a month ago could be better, and also partly because every programmer I know has some level of "imposter syndrome" and is desperately trying to reassure themselves that they're actually OK at their job.

What it doesn't do, though, is to foster that sempai/kohai relationship that is implicit in our jobs,and we could all do with being better at that. Remember: style guides are guides, and opinons are like arseholes-- everyone's got one!

Sensei

It's great having that sempai/kohai relationship with others in our industry, but we also need somthing different. The sensei in a dojo is the teacher, the one who is imparting knowledge after years of their own study. There are two important aspects to this that I want to call out; firstly teaching begets understanding; and secondly we all need teachers to help identify our failings. 

I've heard it said that unless you can teach something to a "layman", you don't really understand it yourself. It's certainly been the case for me that teaching Kendo* has massively improved my own practice, because in order to teach effectively you are constantly reviewing what you do, and trying to demonstrate it as well as you possibly can. 

By the same token, the more I have advanced, and the more I am aware of my flaws, the more I need input from senior sensei to help me see the root of those problems. A concrete(Kendo) exaple; I had an issue with some of my footwork, until one day a 7th Dan sensei watching me fight pointed out that problem, I didn't the experience to identify the root cause.

We need those same types of people in our programming lives; those with the experience to see the root causes of issues we're seeing, and at the same time not forgetting that those sensei are also sempai-they've just been walking the roead longer (so they've got things we can teach them too).

*Yes, 3rd Dan isn't ideally quite high enough grade to be teaching, but I'm in the UK; and Southampton doesn't have loads of high ranking kendoka!

So, there's my 3 reasons why coding is like Kendo; but lets be totally honest, Kendo suits coders because after a day of bashing your own head against a programming issue, there's nothing quite so satisfying as trying to whack someone else's with a big stick!

There are Kendo clubs all over the world; its great fun and suitable for all. Have a go!



