# 10 Programming Blogs Every Programmer Should Follow

***

https://www.technotification.com/2018/06/best-programming-blog.html

***

by Vicky Singh Rao

Rule of the thumb that every new programmer must follow is to interact with the right kind of programming blog. This can be useful as you begin your career in programming. Blogs are a great tool to source out useful information that may help you in your programming. The right kind of blog is detailed and well-focused on providing relevant information. Here is a list of top 10 blogs that every programmer should be reading.

10 Best Blogs about Programming and Development

1. Geeks for Geeks blog

Geeks for Geeks blog is simply an online journal where programming software engineers, yearning to land careers at huge tech companies interact. Here, programming geeks seek relvant answers to possible programming questions that may be asked during such interviews. Geeks for Geeks blog is a client submitted blog where developers who are still amateurs post their own interview encounters.

2. Six Revisions

Founded in 2008 by a programming guru, Jcob Gube, Six Revisions is a programming blog that has useful and viable articles on programming for web engineers and planners. You will also find instructional exercises, guidance in programming tools and great information on anything HTML, CSS, JavaScript among many others. If you are intereted in advancing your programming career, then this is one blog that should be on your bucket list.

3. Google Developer blog

Owned by Google, this blog contains relevant discussion groups for programmers who mostly use Google developer's products. It might be quite relevant in you programming career ifyou prefer to work on Google developer's projects. It also provides the news and insights on Google platforms, tools, and events.

4. Coding Horror

The Coding Horror is yet another programming blog that has proven to be quite resourceful for programmers. The main blogger, Jeff Atwood is a software developer who is well experinenced in programming. He usually gives good programming tips coupled with great visuals. What I love most is the manner in which the programming content is delivered, quite upbeat and quirky hence targeting all levels of programmers. The blog seems not much of active this year but it has hundreds of blog articles on important programming and coding concepts

5. Hackerearth Blog

Hackerearth is one of the most popular programming contest sites. Its blog is run by the experts in the industry. There are different articles on different programming tools and cutting-edge technology that might go a long way to assist you to become a pro in programming. Further, there are also webinars that will guide you on how to be an effective programming blog. 

6. DZone.com

DZone proud itself for being a programming blog that will offer you great insights into the world of coding and development. There are articles that contain useful content that seems to be well-detailed and written by experts in the field of programming. This is yet another blog that you need to familiarise yourself with.

7. The Linux Foundation blog

If you need a variety of content related to open source and shell scripting or anything that revelves around software engineering and programming, then you need to follow the Linux Foundation blog. There are detailed programming and cutting-edge tech related articles written by authors from the Linux Foundation who are mostly experts in programming and software engineering. Linux is also considered as the best operating system for programmers so it's important to know what's going on in the world of Linux.

8. The Github blog

This programming blog presents you with an opportunity to interact with other students, coders, and teachers as well. You can find special assignments aimed at sharpening your skills as a programmer. You are allowed to post any questions on any issues related to programming and professional teachers guide you through step by step. There are also great articles written by teachers as well as other students to help you develop content for your programing blog.

9. Microsoft Developer blog

Microsoft Developer blog is run by professional software engineers who have a vast knowledge of programming and web advancement. Sharing their invaluable experience, these programming blogs are simply a must read for all programmers. There are also up to date information about recent software and technological advancement that might be quite resourcful in helping you come up with quality content for your personal programming blog.

10. Code Better

If you are looking for all the bset practice methods in programming as well as relevant programming tools and techniques, this blog is a must-read. There are various bloggers on Code Better who are well experineced in programming. Most of the authors have day jobs as software developers hence, they are undoubtedly gurus in programming as they share their personal experiences. You can even find tutorials on Code Better that will help you be a good programmer.

In a nutshell, this is only the tip of an iceberg of some of the best programming blogs there are out here. You can do your own homework and find out other useful programming blogs that will help you in your programming blog. You can also follow our Twitter handle @tech9tification for latest news, updates, and tutorials on programming.  
