#What are the best resources for learning iOS development? I'm looking to learn Swift, Objective-C, and Cocoa.

***

https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-best-resources-for-learning-iOS-development-Im-looking-to-learn-Swift-Objective-C-and-Cocoa

***


Computer Programming Educational Resources Educational Resources
iOS Application Development iOS Learning Learning to Program Computer Programming

Answer Wiki

***

Many mobile app development companies are there if you search in Google. You will get the whole list but no one will you give guarantee for the success.

Hyperlink InfoSystem gives you the guaranteed success for all your mobile app development related queries. 

They have the cent percent ratio of satisfied clients from all over the world.

Hire Mobile developers from Hyperlink InfoSystem and gain access to services that are quality driven. iOS and Android apps designed by us are result oriented. Our mobile app developemnt services start at just $15/hr.

100+ Answers
***

Aaron Golding Brager, iOS Director at Bloc, who has a secret plan to fight inflation
Updated Jul 18, 2014

I've been developing for iOS for a few years, both contracting and open-source. I've also mentored and taught iOS development. Needless to say, I've been asked this question many times. The best answer will be different depending on what type of learning you need, and your current knowledge of how things work. 

Many of the other answers here list general resources, but before you choose one, it's important to consider the kind of resource you want:

* Do you want to learn on your own?
* Do you want to watch videos?
* Do you want to get out of tutorial land?
* Do you wnat accountability from a robust training program?

I'll review a few different styles and make recommendations.

Self-Guided Learning Resources

Advantages: cheap (usually free); flexible

Disadvantages: difficult to ask anything but very specific questions; difficult to get feedback on subjective concepts like code style or architectural design; requires an incredible amount of self-discipline to stay on track 

There are a few self-guided resources that are good:

Free

- The famous Stanford course on iTunes U (Developing iOS 7 Apps for iPhone and iPad) is free and highly structured. It's comprehensive, and fast-paced. It's not great for programming beginners, but it might be good for the OP who has prior web-based programming experience.

-Apple's Documentation is incredibly thorugh, well-written, and suprinsingly succinct. Start with Object-Oriented Programming with Objective-C and branch out from there.

-Ray Wenderlich's Tutorials for iPhone/iOS Developers and Gamers is a good middle ground- it has a linear structure like a course, but lets you easily focus on one skill like making a table view or a game. 

-NSHipster is a blog updated every Monday with a short article on something related to iOS development, usually a specific class or syntax. It's humorous, fun, and informative.

Paid

There are also some paid self-guided content companies, but the free stuff is of such high quality I don't personally think they're worth paying for. 

* Treehouse iOS Courses
* Code School

One-to-Many Learning Resources (usually in-person)

Advantages: work with a teacher; work with other students learning at the same pace as you

Disadvantages: possible to fall behind (or accelerate ahead) of the class; need to compete for time with teachers/mentors; hassles of commuting; expensive; you often need to quit your job; curriculum can't be customized for your skill level

There are many great places to take iOS classes, which usually require 40-60 hours a week of work (including homework) and usually take place over about 10 weeks:

- In Chicago, Mobile Makers Academy ($9,000) provides an excellent in-person program, which includes not only programming but practice pitching ideas, and help with job placement.

- In Seattle, Code Fellow's iOS Development Accelerator ($10,000) even offers a job placement guarantee.

- In New York City, The Flatiron School ($12,000) has excellent teachers and assists with job placement. 

Similar services are available around the world in major cities. Just search for "<your city name> iOS bootcamp" and you'll probably find a good option.

Since the OP already has programming skills, they may be interested in shorter courses, too. For example, Future Media Concepts offers a variety of short (~one-week) classes that give you a very basic understanding of Objective-C. These will get you started, but obviously can't be comprehensive.

One-to-One Learning Resources (usually online)

Advantages: flexible scheduling; feedback and guidance from a mentor as your learning grows; cheaper than classroom learning (no overhead of a physical location)

Disadvantages: lost networking potential (no group of students to stay in touch with); flexible scheduling can lead to procrastination

If you can afford it, my opinion is that one-to-one personal training provides the best balance between cost and learning ability. 

Typically, there is a curriculum that you go through at your own pace, and you Skype/ScreenHero/Google Hangout with a mentor once or twice a week. These mentoring sessions can be tailored to your skill level.

Here's an example of this customization: when studying strings, programming beginners might ask these questions of their mentor:

- What is a string?
- What is a substring?
- When are strings used in iOS apps?

A more advanced programmer might ask:

- What types of encoding are typically used in iOS app development?
- How do I localize my strings between differenct locals?
- How is formatting information about strings typically stored?

This type of curriculum customization isn't possible at a deep level with one-to-many training, and it's wholly unstructured with self-guided learning.

Bloc, where I work, offers an immersive one-to-one mentoring experience with a structured yet flexible curriculum. Towards the end, there's also a "project" experience in which your mentor plays the role of a senior developer, and guides you as you build a variety of iOS apps from scratch using a few different technologies, including both Objective-C and Swift. By the end of the Bloc experience, you'll have built a handful of different iOS apps, and you should be ready to go through an entry-level iOS developer job (or possibly higher if you're already coming in with some programming chops).

Here's a comparison of one-to-one mentoring services:

Immersive Courses:
(By "immersive", I mean as thorough as a boot camp):

* [Bloc](https://www.bloc.io/ios?utm_source=aarons-quora-post) is $4,999 for 450-500 hours of training (over 12, 18, or 36 weeks) including a rigorous, integrated curriculum and 36 mentor meeting

Lighter Courses:

* [Thinkful](http://www.thinkful.com/) is $1,500 for 120-150 hours of training (over 12 weeks), including a basic curriculum and 12 mentor meetings

Mentoring without Accompanying Course Matarial:

* [HackHands](https://hackhands.com/#/) is like Uber for mentoring, offering on-demand video mentoring at $1/minute

* [AirPair](http://www.airpair.com/) is a mentorship marketplace where mentors set their own rate, ranging from $60/hours to $300/hour

Hackhands and Airpair are different from Bloc and Thinkful in that they don't offer content or structure to accompany the mentorship.

Thinkful's pragram is less expensive, but also much less rigorous and less holistic than Bloc's. (See [Choosing Between Bloc or Thinkful](http://blog.bloc.io/choosing-between-bloc-or-thinkful/); I won't rehash it all here.)

General Advice

I'll tack on some general advice, even though the OP didn't ask for it:

1. Don't let yourself get overwhelmed.

There is tons and tons of stuff to learn within iOS development. I could write an entire book on saving data to the disk, or animation, or connecting to a web service, or the myriad other things you do as an iOS developer. Start by learning broadly, then go deep when you find a need to. If something is totally confusing to you, write down your specific questions about it and discuss it with a mentor. Which leads me to #2...


2. Learn how to ask specific questions.

Read Stack Overflow's guide to asking a good quesion. The more specific you are, the more helpful the answer you receive will be. Plus, the process of writing a good, specific question can sometimes lead you to an answer by yourself.

3. Either follow a curriculum, or work on an actual product.

There's a huge variety and depth of possible things to learn, and your time is finite. If you don't have a problem to solve, it's impossible to decide what to learn next. Work with a curriculum so there's always a next step, or barring that, work on a product so there's always a feature to implement or a but to fix.


***

Jeyachandran MJ, iOS Application Developer
Updated Oct 9, 2016

1. Apple documentation-Swift Overview

Official Apple documentation has always outstanding quality-no difference here. If you are newbie who wants to become an iOS developer, here you will find a great introduction to the programming language used in iOS programming-Swift. Also you will get familiar with accompanied tools-Xcode, Playgrounds and REPL.

If you had to choose only one learning resource from this post, pick this and dive into a massive, official Swift documentation provided by Apple.

[Swift-Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/swift/)

2. Ry's Objective-C Tutorial

If you want to learn Objective-C (and as an iOS developer you should know atleast basics), this is the best place to do it.

It covers some pre-Objective-C required knowledge (basics of C), friendly introduction to the iOS programming as a whole (frameworks, philosophy, Xcode etc) and to the language itself-functions, classes, properties, methods, protocols, blocks, memory management and many, many more.

Even if don't want to learn Objective-C and go 100% the Swift way, learn this short course-it's a very good starting point and knowing these topics should be enough for a Swift developer to not drown in the Objective-C sea.

[Ry's Objective-C Tutorial](http://rypress.com/tutorials/objective-c/index)

3. AppCoda

This is by far my favorite site with step-by-step iOS programming tutorials. You will find there guides for many topics-making Apple Watch apps, notifications, widgets, language tips and tricks, In-App Purchases, Core Data basics and many, many more. All of this shown step by step using understandable language, ideal for beginners.

[Learn iOS Programming and Build iPhone App](http://www.appcoda.com/)

4. Ray Wenderlich

A classic one! It's probably the most known tutorial site in the iOS developers community and I know why-because it's great. It's bigger that AppCoda and has more authors, more content and use more Internet memes in it's articles!

[Tutorials for iPhone/iOS Developers and Gamers](https://www.raywenderlich.com/)

5. NSHipster

Amazing palce for in-depth learning specific Cocoa topics. Want to know about method swizzling, Swift literal convertibles, NSFileManager, iCloud or Clang diagnostics? Go and read all the archives, this is the site for you.

[NSHipster](http://nshipster.com/)

6. Coding Explorer

GREAT blog for learning iOS development, especially Swift-you will be learning together with the author, as he's currently learning too. Blog is new and updated regularly, definitely add it to your RSS reader. A ton of interesting topics around Swift.

[Coding Explorer Blog-Exploring how to code for iOS in Swift and Objective-C](http://www.codingexplorer.com/)

7. iOS Dev Weekly

Weekly newsletter(probably the most popular one) about iOS development-hot news, dev tutorials, tools, design and marketing articles-everything that every iOS programmer needs. Just subscribe.

[The best iOS development links, every Friday](https://iosdevweekly.com/)

8. A Better Way to Learn Swift

If you want to learn Swift from scratch and also you like structured, step by step tutorials with progress tracking-here you have one. You will walk through the full swift course-from basic syntax and variables to closures, enums, classes, initializers and functional programming concepts. Pair this course up with the official Apple docs and you'll become and advanced Swift programmer very fast.

[Cocoa Is My Girlfriend](http://www.cimgf.com/)

9. ManiacDev

ManiacDev is a very well known website in the iOS developers community. It provides not only tutorials and courses, but also links to the new open source libraries, tools or UI controls. It's updated very often and with very good content.

[iOS App Dev Libraries, Controls, Tutorials, Examples and Tools](https://maniacdev.com/)

10. Tutorials Point

Tutorials Point provides iOS programming tutorials broken into single, specific categories like camera management, accelerometer, location handling or storyboards. It's good if you want to learn some specific programming niche.

[iOS (iPhone, iPad) Tutorial](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/ios/index.htm)
[Swift Tutorial](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/swift/)
[Objective-C Tutorial](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/objective_c/)

11. Natasha The Robot

Natasha writes mostly on Swift and WatchKit-and if you are interested in these topics(who wouldn't?), you should read her blog.

https://www.natashatherobot.com/

12. Tuts+

Tuts+ is a great place for beginners, not only because of the easy to read tutorials, but also because of selected topics. They cover real basics of iOS development-creating first app, first steps into Foundation and UIKit, how table view works and many, many more.

[Learn iOS SDK Development From Scratch - Envato Tuts+ Code Tutorials](http://code.tutsplus.com/series/learn-ios-sdk-development-from-scratch--mobile-14536)

13. NSCookbook

NSCookbook provides recipes for solving some concrete problems for iOS developers.

[Recipes](http://nscookbook.com/recipes/)

14. iOS-Blog

Another great iOS programming blog covering subjects like Swift, integration of external libraries, sending emails, asynchronous programming and many more. Definitely check it out, especially if you are a fan of beautiful, flat graphic design.

[Objective-C / Swift Tutorials, Resources and Competitions for the iPhone Developer](http://www.ios-blog.co.uk/)

15. Use Your Loaf

Great programming blog run by an iOS, Mac and Ruby on Rails develper. How to create a CocoaPod, how to read QR codes, how to write effective Objective-C 2.0 and more. A lot of practical, real-life examples.

[Use Your Loaf](http://useyourloaf.com/)

16. SwiftForward

This blog features posts about Swift and iOS development

https://swiftforward.wordpress.com/

17. SoSoSwift

A good frequently updated resource:

http://www.sososwift.com/

18. Hacking with Swift

If you are dedicated then "Hacking with Swift is the best place for learning Swift"

[learn to code iPhone and iPad apps with free Swift 3 tutorials](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/)

19. Making App Pie

Making App Pie is the blog of Steven Lipton in his adventures and misadventures in develping Apps for the iPhone and the iPad.

[Making App Pie](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/)

***

Richard Henry, Co-founder at Telpath
Updated Jun 7, 2014 · Featured on Forbes
Originally Answered: What are the best new resources for learning iOS development in 2014?

I learned everything I needed to know initially about iOS development from the [Stanford CS 193P videos](https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/developing-ios-7-apps-for/id733644550), and the [videos from the most recent WWDC](https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/developing-ios-7-apps-for/id733644550).

Tips for the CS 193P videos:

* Just watch the first 2-3 videos without building anything yourself

* Then start over and follow along by building a simple hobby app that is more fun than the boring app the professor is building

* Keep watching the videos in order as you have time, but start skipping around to the parts that contain what you need to know

* Download slides as a PDF whenever you can, makes it easier to jump around and use code samples

* You don't need to be drawing and using `drawRect:` as much as the professor seems to want to, using subviews or sublayers to create simple shapes will probably be a lot easier at first

* You probably need to watch the first 7 before you start to get a real grip on the key tools that you will need to build an app, but you can certainly start hacking on something much more quickly 

Tips for the WWDC videos:

* Expect most of them to not be useful from an initial learning perspective
* Some are really useful though becuase of the sample code in the slides, I remember the Core Animation video and slides being especially helpful

* [Understanding UlKit Rendering](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2011/#516-video) from 2011 is really useful for understanding how to work with views, layers, layout and rendering

* So are the UIScrollView sessions, maybe start with 2011 and work your way up to today, also the most entertaining WWDC session by far

* Also take a look at Apple's sample code whenever you're stuck on a particular API for usage

* Remember to option click a method name in Xcode to see it's arguments or get to the docs page


Expect these part of iOS development to be the hardest:

* Understanding protocols and delegates (don't try to gloss over this section of the CS 193P videos or you will be so confused later)

* Figuring out where to put code (I'll post a few general tips below)

* Memory management (with ARC this is fairly simple now, just try to get an understanding of the difference between strong/weak references, be a little wary of blocks, and eventually learn how to use the allocations/leaks instuments)

Where to Put Code

Some really general tips on code organization:

* Expect your app to be a sort of tree of reference from the `AppDelegate` to one class instance (like a main `UIViewController), which will have references to other class instances (like a `UIView` and other `UIViewControllers`), and so on 

* In a `UIViewController`, expect to do most of your setup in `viewDidLoad`

* At first, you can probably do most of what you need to do without subclassing `UIView` at all, unless you need to use `draRect:` or override other `UIView` methods, using a view instead of a view controller is mostly organizational

* In a `UIView`, do most of your setup (i.e. creating subviews) in `init`(save `drawRect:` for actual drawing only)

* If you're trying to create a more complex layout, don't forget about `layoutSubviews` for adjusting subview frames and so on

* For now, bias to using properties instead of ivars, you can create a private `@interface` if you don't want to expose a property to other classes

* Read the documentation for `UIViewController`'s `viewWillAppear`, `viewDidAppear`, `viewWillDisppear`, and `viewDidDisppear` (all pretty succinct and once you start to do anything remotely complex you will need to override these methods)

Persisting Data

You should consider `NSUserDefaults` a good alternative to Core Data or SQLite if you want to do is persist a few objects and don't need to query them(i.e. give me objects where...). This is what the pros do, and user defaults has the upside of being much easier to understand as a beginner. It's basically a persistent dictionary, or a key value store. For pure data retrieval, Core Data and SQLite are not faster than user defaults-they are all reading from disk.

"The Best Way"

Once you get to the point where you're starting to care about code style, or if you're just wondering how an experienced programmer might do somehing, I like the [NYTimes Objective-C Style Guide](https://github.com/NYTimes/objective-c-style-guide).

The Future

As you progress you should try to get into a habit of skimming at least the high level documentaion for every method you're using or overriding. Sometimes the documentation will make you aware of surprising side effects, or alternative ways of doing the same thing that might be better for your use case. This is the best way to become really familiar with Foundation and UIKit.

Once you're even further along on your iOS development journey, you might enjoy reading [NSHipster](http://nshipster.com/)- a pretty enteraining blog that documents useful but overlooked APIs or Obj-C features.

***

Reinder de Vries, Founder of LearnAppMaking.com; built 50+ apps for iOS
Answered Mar 4, 2015· Author has 597 answers and 1m answer views

Great question!

I answer a bunch of questions like these every week, so I've started to compile a big list of resources I recommend. A few of these are about Swift, but when these websites offer resources in Swift, they often also do offer materials in Objective-C.

There's a ton of good material out there, and I've categorized them by learning style.

## Learning Style

Don't forget to figure out your learning style before you start learning -- it could be that you learn better by reading, as opposed to watching videos. Combining different resources makes you retain more of what you've learned, so does:

* Trying out code samples, after you've watched a video

* Explaining a coding principle or solution to a friend

* Repeating out loud if you're reading something 

* Creating schemes, drawings, doodles of that what you've learned (I do this all the time)

* Creating your own assignments, giving them to a peer, and review them together afterwards

You learn by creating references to knowledge in you mind (a.o. other ways). The points above greatly increase your level of adoption (comprehension) and the time (And detail) you remember something after you've learned (retention).

## Who Am I?

I'm an app developer, tured app teacher. Since 6 years I've been developing apps as a freelancer for major brands and startups, including Tommy Hilfiger, Philips and Heineken.

Since a year I'm teaching others how to make their own apps, with good education material and a shit ton of free content. I learned app development with one of the first editions of "Sams Teach Yourself in 24h". A long while back!

You can find my course on how to make your own apps, over at [learnAppMaking.com](https://learnappmaking.com/?utm_campaign=question&utm_medium=question&utm_source=quora).

I clearly remember the tedious process of running into a bug I didn't understand, and looking for info online when there was none available. Fortunately, there's a wealth of valuable resources available online these days. 

Here it goes!

## Reading

* [iOS 8 Application Development in 24 Hours, Sams Teach Yourself (6th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Application-Development-Hours-Yourself-Edition/dp/0672337231/ref=dp_ob_title_bk) 

* [iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide(4th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/iOS-Programming-Ranch-Guide-Guides/dp/0321942051/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&keywords=ios+development&qid=1423142839&s=books&sr=1-1) 

* [Beginning iPhone Development with Swift: Exploring the iOS SDK:](http://www.amazon.com/Beginning-iPhone-Development-Swift-Exploring/dp/1484204107/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&keywords=ios+development&qid=1423142839&s=books&sr=1-2) (Apress has a ton of good books!)

## Videos

* [Beginners Swift Programming For iOS Development](https://www.udemy.com/beginners-swift-programming-for-ios-development/?dtcode=bIezL4n2ldfW)

* [Stanford CS 193 course on iPhone development](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs193p/cgi-bin/drupal/)

## Doing

* Go to a hands-on meetup on development in your area:Meetup.com

* Awesome tutorials: [Tutorials for iPhone / iOS Developers and Gamers](http://raywenderlich.com/) (Ray Wenderlich)


* Get together with a few friends and have a programming mastermind

## Listening

* [App Business Podcast - we talk about mobile app publishing](http://appbusinesspodcast.com/) 

* [Gone Mobile](http://gonemobile.io/)

* [CodeNewbie](http://www.codenewbie.org/podcast)


## Discussing

* [CodeNewbie Discourse](http://discourse.codenewbie.org/) (forum)

* [App Business Entrepreneurs on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/AppBusiness/?ref=browser) 

* [App Development Mastermind on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/324856350943805/?ref=browser)

## Advanced Topics / Broader Understanding

* [NSHipster](http://nshipster.com/)

* [Cocoa Is My Girlfriend](http://www.cimgf.com/)

* [Cocoa with Love](http://www.cocoawithlove.com/)

* [Interviews - objc.io issue #20](http://www.objc.io/) 

Good luck! Never stop learning!

  
