#8 career pitfalls every developer should avoid

***
https://www.infoworld.com/article/3270728/it-careers/8-career-pitfalls-every-developer-should-avoid.html
***


If you love to code, and don't think much about your career or your business, it's time to get real and rethink how you approach software development

Let's get real. Some of you got into software because your parents made you (if you grew up outside of the US) or because you figured you could make a lot of money this way. You didn't start young because you were into computers, and you don't really like software development. You're always going to be mediocre. You'll make money because our industry doesn't know how to evaluate skill, talent, or achievement but this article isn't really for you.

If you got punished for taking apart electronics to see how they work. If you snuck online at all hours of the night to learn how to make a video game. If you spent precious free time learning when no one was making you and you weren't actively pursuing a career. If you then found yourself in software as a career, this article if for you.

[The art of programming moves rapidly. InfoWorld helps you navigate what's running hot and what's going cold. | Keep up with hot topics in programming with InfoWorld's App Dev Report newsletter.]

You need to change the way you think about your career. You're not coding for love anymore; you're coding for money. Save the love for your side projects. By all means make sure you at least like your day job - even better if you love it. If not, find a better place with the economy is still hot. 

However, your goal should be to open a 401(k), shove every tax-deductible dollar in it and still have enough left over to buy a house a car and do whatever it is you want to do. Otherwise, someone else is making your money.

Along the way, you need to think about your career, not just your current job. To do that you need to avoid these eight pitfalls.

Pittfall No.1 : Staying too long in a technology

I get it. You like Microsoft C# or Java or JavaScript or Python or Cobol. However, most technologies have a life cycle of adoption, peak, outsourcing, niche, and unhirability. Meaning if you knew Cobol in the 1980s, cool. If you knew it in the early 1990s and weren't looking to retire, you were at risk of losing your job. If you knew it in the late 1090s then Y2K got some people $300 an hour. What about now? You have to be willing to relocate away from the coasts, and you'll probably make less than you're accustomed to.

What about Java? I used to bill $300 an hour for Java consulting. Now? Now the work is done offshore or onshore by one of the offshore companies that knows how to work around the labor laws. If you don't think Javascript or Python or whatever your favorite thing is will go the same way, you just aren't paying attention.

Pitfall No.2 : Being a monopoly technologist

By the same token, you need to hedge your bets. It seems easy and safe to become an expect in whatever is dominant. But then you're competing with the whole crowd both when the technology is hot and when the ground suddenly shifts and you need an exit plan.

For example, I was a Microsoft and C++ guy when Java hit. I learned Java because everyone wanted me to have a lot more experience with C or C++. Java hadn't existed long enough to have such requirements. So I learned it and was able to bypass the stringent C and C++ requirments, and instead I got in early on Java.

A few years back, it looked like Ruby would be ascendant. At one point, Perl looked like it would reach the same level that Java eventually did. Predicting the future is hard, so hedging your bets is the safest way to ensure relevance. 

Pitfall No. 3: Staying in love with a fad

Never tell the Groovy people that it is over. However, the magic has died. People aren't going to pay a premium for Groovy developers. If your boss lets you use it on a project, it will be either because he doesn't care what you use, it isn't very important and he wants to keep you happy, or he's ignorant and doesn't realize that there will be a declining labor supply.

By all means, jump on ascendant technologies and learn them. Be ready to be one of the first to know it and pitch yourself as an expert in it.

However, also be ready to jump when the demand goes lower. There are always other new technologies to fall in love with, whether it be a languge or a database.

Pitfall NO. 4: Being allergic to politics

Every organization, no matter how big or small, has some kind of politics. So, you need to hone your political skills. If you're not aware of the politics, you're going to be a pawn in other people's games. I don't mean you have to be the jerk who is all political games and no work, but you do need to play defensive politics.

Pitfall No. 5 : Being disinterested in the business

"I'm just a developer, I don't interest myself in the business." That's career suicide. You need to know the score. Is your company doing well? What are its main business challenges? What are its most important projects? How does technology or software help achieve them? How does your company fit into its overall industry? If you don't know the answers to those questions, you're going to work on irrelevant projects for irrelevant people in irrelevant companies for a relatively irrelevant amount of money.

Pitfall No. 6: Having the "union shop" mentality

When I was young, one of my first jobs for a telecommunication company had an old-timer who estimated six months for nearly everything. He made the mistake of going on vacation, so I finished the entire project in two weeks but saved him one piece to work on. I expected he'd happy about this. He was not. Boy, was he not. He took every opportunity to get me fired. It became his mission in life. He complained to the new director. 

Of course, I got my work done. I was innovative. I was always finding new ways to get things done better and faster and solve problems. He retired shortly after I left that job. Sometimes, I see him in coffee shops and we pretend not to remember each other.

This wasn't the last time I'd encounter this "go slow or we'll mess you up" idea. My advice is to do the right thing codewise, but be ready to face what is coming. If it is a pervasive problem then vote with your feet- that place isn't going anywhere.

Pitfall No. 7: Not knowing (or caring about) your value

"I'm not in this for the money." Then get a hobby. By all means, don't go to work every day thinking about your next dollar. But also don't go to work making 50 percent less then everyone else either. Know your value, and collect it. 

Pitfall No. 8: Treating your job like just a job

"It is just a job." No, it is a step in your career. You won't be at this job forever. So, What can you learn here? What is the next step? Who is where you eventually want to be? How does this job help you get there?

Develop situational awareness of the whole business. It will do yourself and the people you work for a favor. It will also serve you well in the long term. This isn't just a job, it is a journey. 

