Page Visibility API

TJ Fogarty Jun 28

***

The Page Visibility API lets you detect when a page is visible or in focus for a user. The page is deemed no longer visible if they switch to another tab or when the window is minimized.


So what is good for? The MDN Docs do a great job of explaining this API and its potential uses. For example, you could use it to pause a video or a game or hold off an any background requests you might be making.

My cases are for less noble and exciting. Yes, I'm using it to show an emoji in the document title. Go ahead, switch to a different tab. Do come back though. Please. The link to the MDN Docs gives an example of how to implement the API, along with affordances for older browsers that support a vendor=prefixed version. I'm going to outline a barebones script for my implementation.

```
const PageVisibility = {
	asleepEmoji: https://dev.to/teej/page-visibility-api-5086
	originalTitle : document.title, // [1]
	
	init(){
		if(typeof document.hidden === 'undefined') return //[2]
		
		this.handleVisibilityChange = this.handleVisibilityChange.bind(this) //[3]
		
		document.addEventListener)'visibilitychange', this.handleVisibilityChange, false)},
		
		handleVisibilityChange(){
			let title = this.originalTitle
			
			if(document.hidden) {
				title = `${this.asleepEmoji} ${title}`
			}
			
			document.title = title
	}
}

```


[1] We're storing the original copy of the document title so we can revert back to it once the page is visible again.

[2] We do a rudimentary check for modern support for this feature. You can check out the MDN link above for the vendor prefixed version.

[3] Binding the lexical scope of this. It means when I call `this` it'll refer to the PageVisibility object I created rather than `document`.

After calling `PageVisibility.init()` you're good to go. 

Result:

This was originally [posted on my blog](https://tj.ie/page-visibility)





