ng Started with JavaScript Object

Zell Liew(@ zellwk) July 02

***
https://scotch.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-javascript-object
***

An object is a type of data in JavaScript. It's the only value you can pass around as variables besides primitives. For this reason, objects are really important in JavaScript. 

## What are objects

An object in JavaScript is a type of data that contains key-value pairs.

You can create objects by writing these key-value pairs within curly braces. If you intend to create multiple key-value pairs, you need to separate each pair with commas, like this:

```javascript
const anObject = {
	key1: 'value1',
	key2: 'value2',
	key3: 'value3'
	//...
}

```

Each key gives you a reference to a value. If you imagine an English dictionary, the keys are the words while the values are the definition of each word.

```javascript
const dictionary = {
	dream: "a series of thoughts, images, and sensations occurring in a person's mind during sleep",
	
	happy: "feeling or showing pleasure or contentment",
	// ...
}
```

Since object stores key-value pairs, another analogy you can use is to compare objects in JavaScript with objects in real life.

For example, you can observe the device you're using to read this lesson. What device is this? What's its size? What's its operating system?

If you put these information together into a JavaScript object, it'd look like this:

```javascipt

const macbook = {
	operatingSystem: 'macOS Sierra',
	screenResolution: '2880x1800',
	screenSize: '15.4 inch',
	usbPorts: 2,
	hdmiPort: 1,
	storage: '512gb'
	//... Other specs
}

```

## Object values

Objects can contain any value that's valid in JavaScript. This means you can store primitives (like Strings and Numbers) and other objects.

```javascript
const anObject = {
	string: 'Yay', 
	number: 1,
	boolean: true,
	nullPrimitive: null,
	undefinedPrimitive : undefined,
	anotherObject: {},
	afunction: function(){} //more on functions later
	anArray: [] //more on array in the next lesson
}

```

## Getting the value of a property

Keys are also called properties. You can use two methods to get the value of a property.

The first method is through the dot notation, where you write the name of the object, followed by ., followed by the property name:

```javascript
const prop = object.property
```

So, if you'd like to get the storage of the macbook we declared above, you can write macbook.storage

```javascript

const macbookStorage = macbook.storage
console.log(macbookStorage) //512gb
```

The second method is through the bracket notation. Here, you write the name of the object, followed by string of the property in square brackets ([]).

```javascript
const macbookStorage = macbook['storage']
console.log(macbookStroage) //512gb
```

Both methods work.

Normally, you'll use the dot notation. You'll only use the bracket notation in special occasions where the dot notation doesn't work. These special occasions inclde:

1. When your property name is an invaild identifier
2. When you need get the value of a property through a variable

## Invalid indentifiers

When you declare variables in JavaScript, you need to adhere to four rules:

1. The variable must be written as a single word
2. The variable must consist only of letters, numbers or underscores (0-9, a-z, A-Z, _).

3. The variable cannot begin with a number.

4. The variable cannot be any of these reserved keywords

If your variable follows these four rules, it's a valid identifier, if your variable doesn't follow any of these rules, it's an invalide identifier.

Objects can have invalid inentifiers as properties. Here's one example:

```javascript
const ObjWithInvalidIdentifer = {
	'First Name' : 'Zell'
}
```

When you have an invalid identifier, you can't use the dot notation. You need to use the bracket notation:

```javascript
const firstName = ObjWithInvalidIdentifer.First Name // Syntax Error: Unexpected identifier

const firstName2 = ObjWithInvalidInentifer['First Name'] //Zell
```

Of course, when you create objects, try to make properties with valid identifiers so you can use the dot notation. Don't make life hard for yourself!

## Getting the value of a property through a variable

When you write more advanced code, you may need to get the value of a property through a variable. In this case, you can only use the bracket notation. 

For example, let's say you store the property to search in a variable called propertyToGet.

```javascript
const peropertyToGet = 'storage'
```

There's no property called peropertyToGet in the object, so you can't use the dot notation. If you try doing it, you'll get undefined.

```javascript
const sotrageWithDotNotation = macbook.propertyToGet
console.log(storageWithDotNotation) //undefined
```

You can only use the bracket notation, like this

```javascript
const macbookStorage = macbook[propertyToGet]
console.log(macbookStorage) //512gb
```

That's all you need to know about getting property values. Let's move on and learn to set property values.

## Setting the value of a property

You can set the value of a property either with the dot notation or the bracket notation. Likewise, the dot notation is always preferred.

```javascript
// Dot notation
macbook.storage = '256gb'

//Bracket jnotation
macbook['usbProts'] = 2

console.log(macbook)
```

Deleting properties

You can delete key-value pairs from objects with the delete keyword. To do so, you write delete, followed by the property either in dot or bracket notation. 

```javascript
delete object.property
```

Here's an example where we delete the starge property from the macbook Object.

```javascript
delete macbook.storage
console.log(macbook)
//The storage property is already deleted, hence you don't see it anymore when you console.log it 

// {
//		usbPorts: 2
//}

```

## Functions are Objects in JavaScript

Functions are a special kind of Object in JavaScript. It can have properties too (even though you'd most likely won't declare any). 

```javascript
//you can add properties to functions

function sayName() {}
sayName.property = 'Hallejujah'

console.log(sayName.property)
//Hallelujah
```


Since functions are objects, you can write functions as values in objects. The properties that contain functions as their values are called methods.

```javascript
const anObject = {
	aMethod: function(){
		// Do something in function 
	}
}
```

In the following example, we say playMusic is a method of macbook.

```javascript
const macbook = {
	playMusic: function(){
		/* some code to play music */
	}
}
```

Since methods are functions, they behave exactly like functions.

To call a method, you write parenthesis () after getting the methode through the dot or bracket notation

```javascript
//Calling a method with the dot notation
macbook.playMusic()

//Calling a method with the bracket notation
macbook['plaMusic']()

```

You can also add arguments to methods, just like normal functions:

```javascript
const greeter = {
	sayHello: function(name){
		console.log('Hello '+name+'!')
	}
}

greeter.sayHello('Zell')
//Hello Zell!

```


You may hear phrases like "higher order functions" and "functions are first class objects" when you browse outside tutorials. Ignore these phrases. They both mean functions are objects, which means you can pass functions around as a variable. People like to introduce important-sounding jargons to make functions sound more amazing (and confusing) than they really are.

## Exercise to help you get better with objects

You'll use a lot of objects in JavaScript. Make sure you know them inside-out. Here are some exercises to use can for practice:

1. Make an empty object
2. Make a property for your object with the dot notation. Give it a value
3. Make a property for your object with the bracket notation. Give it a value
4. Get the value of a property with the dot notation
5. Get the value of a property with the square bracket notation
6. Set the value of a property with the dot notation
7. Set the value of a property with the square bracket notation
8. Make a method. Call this method
9. Make a method that takes in an argument. Call this method

***

Zell Liew

2 posts

Zell is a frontend consultant from Singapore. When he's not working on client projects, he digs deep into frontend and explain what he learned on zellwk.com. He was written books and courses, which include Automate Your Workflow and Learn Javascript. 


